Are you always late for meetings?
Is your workspace a mess?
Or are you making more mistakes
or finding it difficult to deliver what you promise at work?
All of these workplace challenges
may be symptoms of a common source, poor time management.
How we manage or fail to manage our time
can have surprising repercussions on our work and wellbeing.
It's possible that you have a time management problem
and don't even know it.
So, let's reveal four of the most commonly
overlooked symptoms of poor time management,
because you have to be aware of a problem
before you can fix it.
The first symptom of poor time management
is that you're always late.
You're the person who always arrives at the meeting last,
misses appointments altogether,
or rushes from one task or engagement to the next.
Struggles with punctuality
are often a sign of poor scheduling, poor time estimation,
or a failure to think ahead.
For example, you might be underestimating
how long it takes you to complete a task,
or you might be failing to predict traffic
or project delays.
If this sounds like you,
then one tip is to add a buffer.
Schedule an extra 10 minutes between meetings
in case those appointments run longer than expected
or add an extra hour or half day
when estimating how long it will take to complete a project.
The second symptom of poor time management
is a messy workspace.
Is your desk cluttered with illegible sticky notes
and stale coffee cups?
Is your organization system lacking or nonexistent?
If your workspace looks like a tornado just passed through,
then you might've fallen prey to procrastination,
or perhaps you simply don't make workspace organization
a priority in your busy schedule.
But did you know that a cluttered workspace
can create a cluttered mind?
A messy work environment may unwittingly
become a source of distraction and stress.
So, get motivated and stop procrastinating
by reminding yourself that a tidy
and organized work environment is a worthwhile investment.
The third symptom is breaking
or neglecting your commitments.
This describes when you fail to deliver what you promised
or do what you said you were going to do.
Breaking or neglecting commitments may be a sign
that you're over committing yourself.
This can happen when you fail to delegate,
communicate your workload with your boss,
or ask your boss about priorities.
One tip for addressing this symptom
is to stop making commitments that you can't keep.
Communicate when you're at capacity
and ask for help when you need it.
Finally, the last often overlooked symptom
of poor time management is poor performance.
You may become less efficient,
which describes when you aren't working
as fast as you could, or you may become less effective,
which describes when you're making more mistakes than usual,
or your quality of work declines.
Poor performance can be a sign
that you're getting distracted
or trying to do too many tasks at the same time.
If this sounds like you,
then one tip is to stop multitasking.
If you're working on a project,
don't check your emails at the same time.
Focus on one task at a time and eliminate interruptions.
Now, put it all together and ask yourself,
am I often late or rushing?
Do I have a cluttered or disorganized workspace?
Am I known to break or neglect my commitments?
And has my work performance declined recently?
If you answered yes to one or more of these questions,
then you may be struggling to manage your time effectively.
The good news is this.
Now that you know what the root of the problem is,
you can fix it.
Start evaluating how you manage your time
and look for opportunities to address
and alleviate the symptoms you're experiencing.
Remember that awareness is the first step to action.
By recognizing the symptoms of poor time management,
you're on your way to improving it.